## Twitter Sentiment Tracking: Predictive Analytics in the Age of Social Media
### EN.600.466 Informational Retrieval and Web Agents 
─
### Jeong eun (Hailey) Lee, jlee562@jhu.edu 
### Arpan Ghosh, aghosh17@jhu.edu 

## Overview
The United States election of 2016 ushered in a new era of politics for the United States, but it also shocked the world, particularly for those in the field of predictive analytics. Almost every major polling site predicted between an 80% to over 99% landslide victory for the Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton (fig. 1), and others predicted a Clinton victory even if the margins weren't as high. Yet the reality on November 9th were electoral results that were very far from the predictions. Particularly, states that were unilaterally predicted to go blue for Hillary, that ultimately cost her the election, went to Trump in a decisive electoral victory (i.e. Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan, and the wild-cards North Carolina and Florida). The predictive analytic business relies heavily on quantitative data, as qualitative data is hard enough to decipher. Major media outlets and the most trusted polling organizations suffered a significant embarrassment, and the question that went through the minds of everyone in the business of predictive and accurate data analytics were whether conventional polling mechanisms were still accurate, or was a landslide Trump victory truly a statistical anomaly?

## Procedure
We wanted to find out the answer to the above question. To focus on a specific testable simulation, we focused on the following: Could conducting a sentiment analysis of tweets have predicted an electoral victory for Donald Trump? Moreover, the beauty behind analyzing language to track sentiment is that we ultimately end up with quantitative data using a qualitative approach. To do this, we relied on the following broad categorizations for modeling the English language to categorize tweets as being pro-Trump/anti-Clinton or pro-Clinton/anti-Trump. By scraping a random 100,000 tweets in the US for the month of July, October, and during election week (November 1st- November 8th), we will have collected a total of 600,000 tweets (300,000 with the keyword Trump and 300,000 with Clinton). We will analyze our raw results in the following manner: analyze the number of tweets that fall in pro-Trump and pro-Clinton camps by weighting the hashtags, region weighting, and term weighting, as well as run a geo-tag location extraction on the JSON of each tweet. The goal is to map the tweets, with heavy focus on the five shocking states where mainstream media outlets were confident for a Clinton victory yet went Trump: Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, North Carolina. The extension of our focus question to the data is: Could analyzing tweets have predicted an electoral victory for Trump in the rust belt and swing states? Our prediction is: Yes, twitter sentiment analysis is a powerful supplement towards accurately prediction of electoral results, and would have predicted a Trump electoral victory.
